---
layout: post
title: Einstein Telescope ECS Workshop
date: 2026-02-20 01:59:00
description: Talk and panelist at the ET ECS Workshop
tags: workshop seminar
categories: sample-posts
thumbnail: assets/img/posts/ecs-et.png
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
---

Last week, between Feb 18-20, the [Einstein Telescope science workshop for early career researchers](https://indico.ego-gw.it/event/1027/) took place in Rome, at La Sapienza University. I was invited to give a talk and hold a panel about waveform systematics and accuracy requirements for next generation detectors together with the excellent [Lorenzo Pompili](https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/mathematics/people/lorenzo.pompili).

The two of us summarized the current state of the art in waveform modeling for compact binary coalescences (BBHs and BNSs, mainly), and the challenges that lie ahead of us (waveform systematics, above everything else).
To communicate the importance of this topic to a young audience, we attempted to speak their language via
widely recognizable, image-based templates. That is to say, we used a lot of memes.
They did earn a couple of chuckes, so I guess we did a good job. The panel was also fun: we poked the aurience with questions about their expectations for the future of waveform modeling, as well as some philosophical questions: **will we be ready in time?**

Beyond the talk and the panel, the workshop was a great opportunity to see old friends and meet new ones.
A special thank you goes to the organizers, who did a **fantastic** job in putting together a very fun program
and making everyone feel the warmth of the Roman hospitality. A special shoutout to whoever put together the wine and cheese reception, which honestly was such a good idea that I don't understand why it isn't a standard at every conference.

Until next time, Rome!

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/posts/et_ecs_optimism.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/posts/et_ecs_challenge.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/posts/et_ecs_memes_2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>
